- [Narrator] When making an API call,
REST is something you should be aware of
regardless of the language you're using
or what API you're calling.
The whole point of REST is to describe
an informal set of rules that influence
how resources are exposed over the web
and how clients access them.
These guidelines, which are loosely followed in API design,
center around the concept of a resource.
A resource is any object or concept
a client might be interested in working with,
so it's a little bit abstract.
When working with resources,
you'll encounter them organized individually,
in a collection, or nested within other resources
as a sub collection.
How resources are organized is important
because it influences an API design
and, ultimately, how your client will call that API.
Roy Fielding, the creator of REST,
described its key principles in a dissertation.
Those principles have guided the design
of many popular APIs,
like those we'll be working with.
I won't cover each of these in detail,
but we will dive deeper on the uniform interface principle.
The uniform interface principle has a big impact
on how clients call an API.
It specifies that REST APIs will use an identifier
to locate each resource.
So when calling a REST API,
clients must use a URI to identify
the exact resource they're going to interact with.
REST APIs use collections and resource IDs
to structure the format of the URI path.
This strategy requires the path
to include variable segments
where the specific resource ID is provided.
Another important concept is resource representations.
A resource can be thought of
as a variation of some stored entity.
So for example, a record storing information about a pet.
The resource depicts that entity's data elements,
but it doesn't need to be exactly the same as the entity.
The resource is then interacted with using a representation.
The representation depicts the resource
in a specific format, like JSON or XML.
When performing actions on a REST API,
like creating or retrieving a resource,
clients work with representations
instead of directly handling the resource itself.
REST also stipulates that messages
should be self descriptive.
This means if you receive a message,
it will contain all of the information
that you need to process it as a client.
This is what makes REST and HTTP a perfect pair.
When using HTTP messages,
you can use the HTTP method to describe
the type of operation,
the URL to identify the resource,
and headers to indicate additional information,
like media types the client accepts.
In the HTTP response, the REST API is able to communicate
the results of an operation using the status code,
information regarding caching via headers,
and the resource representation in the response body.
When we overlay these principles
on top of an HTTP request and response,
we can see the aspects a REST client
must programmatically handle
when making a call to a REST API.
An HTTP request that targets the operation
to be performed on the API resource
must be constructed with any necessary headers.
If the operation requires a request body,
the representation must be constructed and provided
in the appropriate format.
After the client makes the call,
the status code of the response must be analyzed
to determine if it was successful,
and then any resource representations
that were returned in the response body
must be parsed by the client.
Security is another consideration for API clients
because most APIs protect their resources.
They're only going to allow authorized clients
to access them.
So typically you'll encounter three approaches:
basic auth, API keys, and OAuth 2.
Basic auth is pretty simple.
The user's going to send their credentials
with each request.
An API key provides somewhat better security
because it uses a unique value assigned to the API client.
This value is typically passed
as a header in each HTTP request.
OAuth 2 is the most complex of the three.
It features an entire playbook that defines
how token-based access can be used.
This includes scenarios for things
like machine-to-machine communication
and delegated access scenarios.
When building an API client,
you must prepare the call in the way
that it is understood by the API
in order to perform an operation on it.
The client must also understand the response
that is sent back from the API
in order to use the returned resources.
Understanding core REST principles and security schemes
will allow you to successfully construct REST API calls
and handle their responses.